Update PD election process based on 2025 feedback (#286)
rust-lang/leadership-council: policies/project-directorship/election-process.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Procedure
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Review Role Description ([example](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3392#issuecomment-1505697944)). The facilitator role description must contain at least the following content:
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

    * **Goals of the facilitator role**
        * Clearly documenting and communicating the process and announcing and supporting its execution.
        * Tracking, reviewing, and documenting the effectiveness of the process.
* Review the [PD role description](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/roles/rust-foundation-project-director.md).

The facilitator role is time-consuming and may be better suited for someone already being paid to work on the Project. A Project Manager is a good option, as this role fits well within their responsibilities.

The Council can also ask the Foundation to provide a staff member, but that should be done well in advance (3-4 months to make sure they can find someone who will have the time).

> ### Pre-Meeting Coordination

Reviewer 2: I think it would be useful if the nominated candidates had a group call with the current PDs to discuss the role and be able to ask us questions and for this to be a part of the process.

I want to encourage people to nominate themselves and have an idea of what they want to achieve in the role, and that not needing to be something that is necessarily fully aligned with the current PDs, but I also want to avoid circumstances where people nominate themselves with unrealistic expectations of what we do as board members. We had a call like this after Niko, Jack and I were selected and it was useful to hash out a shared understanding of what our job actually was, and I think that would be better earlier in the process.

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..e1a2aed906c4219b6fd0980d41accd95680b99e5)*

Author: I like that!

Where in the process should we do this? You suggest doing this with nominated candidates, but also wanting to encourage people to nominate themselves and level-set their expectations.

What do you think about doing this as a Q&A / panel before the nominations are open? (or better yet, right as they open so people can feel inspired and submit theirs right after)

Reviewer 2: I'd be happy to do this prior to nominations opening, but it would require that everyone who knows they're going to nominate themselves or be nominated attend to get the benefit. I was thinking it would be after nominations close and we know what the set of people being considered are - and we'd have a group call with them.

Author: Done, look at this commit: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/286/commits/ed5982b3d6d32c0afdd656636db386deb48e0b43

Is that what you had in mind?

Reviewer 2: Perfect, thanks!

    * **Goals of the facilitator role**
        * Clearly documenting and communicating the process and announcing and supporting its execution.
        * Tracking, reviewing, and documenting the effectiveness of the process.
* Review the [PD role description](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/roles/rust-foundation-project-director.md).

> The facilitator role is time-consuming and may be better suited for someone already being paid to work on the Project. A Project Manager is a good option, as this role fits well within their responsibilities.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Since we're FCPing this, and so this could be read as normative, I'd like to strike this.

Facilitating is a lot of work, and I'm appreciative of @tomassedovic for doing this in the last round.

At the same time, structurally (i.e., having nothing to do with the wonderful job that Tomas did), I think the facilitation role as designed is better for a council member (or maybe a PD or former council member or PD) to do (perhaps with the assistance of a program manager for some legwork).  In particular, there are risks with the council asking someone hired by the Project to do this.

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..ed5982b3d6d32c0afdd656636db386deb48e0b43)*

Reviewer 2: > In particular, there are risks with the council asking someone hired by the Project to do this.

What risks? Reading through the process being documented here, I don't see much opportunity for the facilitator to put their thumb on the scale here.

Reviewer 3: Project Directors plausibly decide on matters affecting the employment of the staff.  The facilitator does, actually, have substantial discretion in the documented process as the facilitator selects the ballot of candidates for council approval.

There's a plausible conflict of interest in the staff having a discretionary role here.  More importantly, due to the discretionary role, it puts the staff in the position of being the *bad guy*, and I've generally believed others in leadership should take ultimate accountability for this sort of thing to shield the staff from that.

Reviewer 2: > The facilitator does, actually, have substantial discretion in the documented process as the facilitator selects the ballot of candidates for council approval.

Where does it say the facilitator can drop candidates before it goes to the council? It reads to me as if the facilitator just gathers the candidate information and passes it on.

But to be clear, your concern is that a project manager couldn't collect the candidate names and statements, because those names and statements are of people who might end up sitting on a board that might end up having some input to the council's budget where program managers are hired from, or to the Foundation's staff hiring?

That strikes me as a very small risk and better mitigated by having another program manager involved or something rather than structurally preventing the people who are well placed to do this type of work from doing it.

Reviewer 3: What you describe is not the concern.  The process, within the election meeting, is that the facilitator makes a discretionary decision on the set of nominees to put forward for council acceptance.  The council then tries to resolve any objections to that set.  If no objections remain, then that set is accepted and the people in that set become the new Project Directors (after the formal voting).  If objections persist and an impasse is reached, the facilitator makes a new discretionary choice and the process repeats.

That's real discretion and can realistically affect who is elected.  And as I [said](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/286#discussion_r3424320767):

> There's a plausible conflict of interest in the staff having a discretionary role here. More importantly, due to the discretionary role, it puts the staff in the position of being the _bad guy_, and I've generally believed others in leadership should take ultimate accountability for this sort of thing to shield the staff from that.

Regarding the observation that the staff can be helpful, I agree.  As I [said](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/286#discussion_r3251859262):

> I think the facilitation role as designed is better for a council member (or maybe a PD or former council member or PD) to do (perhaps with the assistance of a program manager for some legwork).

Nobody is suggesting we prevent the staff from doing the legwork.  I'm suggesting it makes sense for someone else in leadership to be the ultimately accountable individual.  I would expect that person would lean on the staff where the staff can be helpful.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the clarification. Given that the council members first share an initial impression that informs the set of nominees selected by the facilitator, and the council are aware of the full set of the nominees, I continue to think there isn't a meaningful risk here.

Author: This makes sense to me. The risk might not be huge, but it is there. As a facilitator, I was surprised to have a much greater ability to influence things than I expected.

The way I understand @traviscross's concern, it's about never creating a situation where anyone could even worry about an undue influence from paid staff regardless of whether any exists.

Kind of similar to how, rather than having to prove there's no bias when a manager supervises their spouse and gives them a rise, it's far better for spouses to never be in a supervisory relationship at work.

      * For reference, here are the [2025](https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/S1WrrVY_ex) and [2024](https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/B1aNREWZye) candidate statements.
    * The facilitator must publicly share the pool of all nominations, statements, and reasonings at least ten days before the final election meeting.
        * This allows other teams to share feedback or objections about candidates their team didn't initially consider with their representative.
        * The facilitator will explicitly reach out to team leads, existing PDs, and the Council for feedback.
    * This 10-day period is equivalent to the Change Round in the "Election Meeting" step; representatives may change their nominations in advance of the meeting, this does not require restarting the 10-day period.
    * The facilitator will share the names of all nominees with the Foundation, who will set up an online election poll.
        * In the past rounds, the poll was set up by @BecRumbul.
        * The poll **doesn't allow changing one's vote** after it's cast. The Council should verify access, but they must *only cast the vote at the appropriate time* during the Election Meeting.

> * Schedule a group call with the nominated candidates and existing Project Directors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Schedule a group call with the nominated candidates and existing Project Directors.
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..ed5982b3d6d32c0afdd656636db386deb48e0b43)*

    * The facilitator will schedule this call after the nominations are closed.

### Election Meeting Preparation

The election meeting is comprised of all members of the Leadership Council who will actively participate in the consensus process as well as the facilitator who will facilitate that process.

The facilitator schedules the meeting. This is typically done at the same time and day of the week as the Council meeting, but on an off week (i.e. Friday when there's no scheduled Council meeting). In 2025, the meeting took 2.5 hours, compared to 1.5 in previous years. The facilitator must share this expectation and should consider scheduling it earlier, if possible.

If a Council member is unable to attend the Election Meeting or needs to recuse themself, the team they represent will select another member to act in their stead.

The facilitator will create a HackMD document containing:

* The candidates
* Their statements
* Feedback received
* A "Discussion" section to capture everyone's thoughts on each candidate
* A "Preferences" section with a table
* A "Selection" section

The Preferences section looks like this:

> `-1`: I have objections
> `0`: Not my choice, but no objections
> `1`: I prefer this candidate

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`-1`: Strong objection.
`-0`: Not my preference, but no objection.
`+0`: OK by me.
`+1`: Full support.
```

This system is usually interpreted with a signed zero.

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..ed5982b3d6d32c0afdd656636db386deb48e0b43)*

Reviewer: See also: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/286#discussion_r3131091260

|      | Candidate 1 | Candidate 2 | Candidate 3 | Candidate 4 | Candidate 5 |
|------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|
| LC A | 0           | +1          | +1          | 0           | -.5         |
| LC B | +1          | 0.5         | +1          | -1          | +1          |
| LC C | +1          | -.5         | 0           | +.5         | +1          |
| LC E | 0           | -.5         | 0           | +.5         | +1          |
| LC F | +1          | -.5         | +1          | +.5         | +1          |
| LC G | +1          | -.5         | 0           | +.5         | +1          |
| LC H | +1          | -.5         | 0           | +.5         | +1          |
|------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|
| Sum  | +5          | -1          | 3           | +1.5        | +5.5        |

The first column lists all the LC members and stand-ins who cast the votes. The first row lists all the PD candidates.

Each Council member will share their (non-binding) preference on each candidate in isolation. The actual discussion and election process is described in the "Election Meeting" section below.

> NOTE: The facilitator must ensure that the document is accessible to every voting member and *no one else*. In particular, if an existing Council member is among the candidates, the document cannot be created under the Leadership Council HackMD organisation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE: The facilitator must ensure that the document is accessible to every voting member and *no one else*. In particular, the document cannot be created under the Leadership Council HackMD organization.
```

All documents in the LC HackMD organization are publicly indexed, so it can't be created there in any case.

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..ed5982b3d6d32c0afdd656636db386deb48e0b43)*

For example, in 2025, the facilitator created a document in their personal account, set the "Read" and "Write" Note permissions to "Signed-in users" and took care to only share the link with the voting members. After the meeting, they set the permission to "Only me".

> This is to work around the fact that our free HackMD accounts don't allow sharing a private note with more than three other people. The facilitator should investigate other solutions ahead-of-time.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

We do all of the private council minutes this way, so I don't know that we need to normatively suggest that a facilitator seek out other solutions.

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..ed5982b3d6d32c0afdd656636db386deb48e0b43)*

    * **Goals of the facilitator role**
        * Clearly documenting and communicating the process and announcing and supporting its execution.
        * Tracking, reviewing, and documenting the effectiveness of the process.
* Review Role Description ([example](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3392#issuecomment-1505697944)). The facilitator role description must contain at least the following content:
    * Goals
    * Time Investment
    * Responsibilities
    * Qualifications

>     * Term

Reviewer 4: I might be a little confused here, but I believe this is referring to the PD role description. IIRC, we did not have that written when this process was written down. I think this could be changed to something like:

```suggestion
* Review the [PD role description](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/roles/rust-foundation-project-director.md).
```

Reviewer: The paragraphs after this list still mention the Facilitator, so I think the description is for that role. The Setup step seems to be wholly about finding a Facilitator.

Author: Yeah, I think that's right. Thanks!

The facilitator role is time-consuming and may be better suited for someone already being paid to work on the Project. A Project Manager is a good option, as this role fits well within their responsibilities.

The Council can also ask the Foundation to provide a staff member, but that should be done well in advance (3-4 months to make sure they can find someone who will have the time).

### Pre-Meeting Coordination

* Gather nominations
    * The nomination process begins with a public announcement made on public communication channels from the facilitator chosen in the Setup phase. Council representatives and team leads should help publicize this announcement to their teams as well. Past examples:

>         *  [Inside Rust Blog](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/08/20/electing-new-project-directors-2025/)

Reviewer 4: Stray space.

```suggestion
        * [Inside Rust Blog](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/08/20/electing-new-project-directors-2025/)
```

        * [Zulip](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/392734-council/topic/2025.20project.20director.20elections/near/535321402)
        * Emailing `all@rust-lang.org`
    * The announcement will explicitly spell out the "Affiliation Limits" section below.
    * The announcement will specify a date by which nominations must be submitted. This date will be no less than two weeks from the date the announcement goes out, and no more than four weeks.
    * Council representatives collaborate with their subteams to collect nominations on behalf of their branch of the organization tree.
      * Nominations do not have to be members of the Council representative's respective team but must be project members.
    * Subteams can utilize any process they prefer, but we recommend following a similar approach to the process outlined in the "Election Meeting" section below
    * The facilitator should reach out directly to team leads to:

>         * Bring the process to their teams

Reviewer 4: Some of these bullet points are inconsistently not using periods. Can you add periods to these? Generally there should be a period unless it's a single word or doesn't have a verb.

Author: Good point, I've added them in now. Thanks!

      * For reference, here are the [2025](https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/S1WrrVY_ex) and [2024](https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/B1aNREWZye) candidate statements
    * The facilitator must publicly share the pool of all nominations, statements, and reasonings at least ten days before the final election meeting.
        * This allows other teams to share feedback or objections about candidates their team didn't initially consider with their representative.
        * The facilitator will explicitly reach out to team leads, existing PDs, and the Council for feedback
    * This 10-day period is equivalent to the Change Round in the "Election Meeting" step; representatives may change their nominations in advance of the meeting, this does not require restarting the 10-day period.
    * The facilitator will share the names of all nominees with the Foundation, who will set up an online election poll.
        * In the past rounds, the poll was set up by @BecRumbul
        * The poll **doesn't allow changing one's vote** after it's cast. The Council should verify access, but they must *only cast the vote at the appropriate time* during the Election Meeting

> ### Election Meeting preparation

Reviewer 4: Since the rest of the document is using title case.

```suggestion
### Election Meeting Preparation
```

    * Qualifications
    * Term

> This is a time-consuming role and may be better suited for someone being paid to work on the Project. A Project manager is a good option and this role fits well within their responsibilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The facilitator role is time-consuming and may be better suited for someone already being paid to work on the Project. A Project Manager is a good option, as this role fits well within their responsibilities.
```

(Feel free to drop the *already*, but it felt fitting in contrast to the next paragraph about hiring a new person.)

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

        * Emailing `all@rust-lang.org`
    * The announcement will explicitly spell out the "Affiliation Limits" section below.
    * The announcement will specify a date by which nominations must be submitted. This date will be no less than two weeks from the date the announcement goes out, and no more than four weeks.
    * Council representatives collaborate with their subteams to collect nominations on behalf of their branch of the organization tree.
      * Nominations do not have to be members of the Council representative's respective team but must be project members.
    * Subteams can utilize any process they prefer, but we recommend following a similar approach to the process outlined in the "Election Meeting" section below
    * The facilitator should reach out directly to team leads to:
        * Bring the process to their teams
        * Collect nominations from their members
        * NOTE: The leads are not tasked with nominating candidates directly (though they can do so, just like any other Project member)
    * The facilitator may specify a minimum or maximum time period

> 	* It is recommended to get the process started at least 2 months from the board meeting the new PDs will attend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	* It is recommended to start the process at least 2 months before the board meeting attended by the new PDs
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

* Share nominations
    * *Nominations from all teams will be pooled together. In other words, teams do not have to nominate a set of directors as a whole. They may nominate any number of potential directors.*
    * Each team representative must share their team's nominations and the reasoning for their nominations first with the candidates being nominated, and then, for those candidates who consent to be nominated, with the council's selected facilitator.
    * Each consenting candidate must write a statement on their candidacy
      * The facilitator must clarify that these statements will be made public
      * For reference, here are the [2025](https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/S1WrrVY_ex) and [2024](https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/B1aNREWZye) candidate statements
    * The facilitator must publicly share the pool of all nominations, statements, and reasonings at least ten days before the final election meeting.
        * This allows other teams to share feedback or objections about candidates their team didn't initially consider with their representative.

>         * The Facilitator will explicitly reach out to team leads, existing PDs, and the Council for feedback

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * The facilitator will explicitly reach out to team leads, existing PDs, and the Council for feedback
```

(or maybe capitalize it everywhere since it's a role?)

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

    * This 10-day period is equivalent to the Change Round in the "Election Meeting" step; representatives may change their nominations in advance of the meeting, this does not require restarting the 10-day period.
    * The facilitator will share the names of all nominees with the Foundation, who will set up an online election poll.
        * In the past rounds, the poll was set up by @BecRumbul
        * The poll **doesn't allow changing one's vote** after it's cast. The Council should verify access, but they must *only cast the vote at the appropriate time* during the Election Meeting

### Election Meeting preparation

The election meeting is comprised of all members of the Leadership Council who will actively participate in the consensus process as well as the facilitator who will facilitate that process.

> The facilitator schedules the meeting. This is typically done at the same time and day of the week as the Council meeting, but on an off week (i.e. Friday when there's no scheduled Council meeting). In 2025, the meeting took 2.5 hours, the previous years took 1.5. The facilitator must share this expectation and should consider scheduling it earlier, if possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The facilitator schedules the meeting. This is typically done at the same time and day of the week as the Council meeting, but on an off week (i.e. Friday when there's no scheduled Council meeting). In 2025, the meeting took 2.5 hours, compared to 1.5 in previous years. The facilitator must share this expectation and should consider scheduling it earlier, if possible.
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

If a Council member is unable to attend the Election Meeting or needs to recuse themself, the team they represent will select another member to act in their stead.

The facilitator will create a HackMD document containing:

* The candidates
* Their statements

> * Feedback we've received

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Feedback received
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

> * "Discussion" section to capture everyone's thoughts on each candidate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A "Discussion" section to capture everyone's thoughts on each candidate
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

> * "Preferences" section with a table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A "Preferences" section with a table
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

> * "Selection" section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A "Selection" section
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

The Preferences section looks like this:

`-1`: I have objections
`0`: Not my choice, but no objections

> `1`: I prefer this candidate

Reviewer: What do the decimal votes mean?

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

Author: We count up the total sentiment about each candidate. It helps inform the candidate groups we propose for the selection round.

Reviewer: I mean, there are definitions for `±1`, but not for `±0.5`

Author: Oh, I see. It's a range. E.g. `+0.5` means something like "I'm leaning towards this candidate but it's not a full endorsement. Think of it as a range of real numbers from `-1` to `1`.

At some of the meetings I've seen (it's not unique to the PD selection, some Lang Design meetings did the same thing to weigh multiple proposals) people even did something like `0.3`.

|      | Candidate 1 | Candidate 2 | Candidate 3 | Candidate 4 | Candidate 5 |
|------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|
| LC A | 0           | +1          | +1          | 0           | -.5         |
| LC B | +1          | 0.5         | +1          | -1          | +1          |
| LC C | +1          | -.5         | 0           | +.5         | +1          |
| LC E | 0           | -.5         | 0           | +.5         | +1          |
| LC F | +1          | -.5         | +1          | +.5         | +1          |
| LC G | +1          | -.5         | 0           | +.5         | +1          |
| LC H | +1          | -.5         | 0           | +.5         | +1          |
|------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|
| Sum  | +5          | -1          | 3           | +1.5        | +5.5        |

The first column lists all the LC members and stand-ins who cast the votes. The first row lists all the PD candidates.

Each Council member will share their (non-binding) preference on each candidate in isolation. The actual discussion and election process is described in the "Election Meeting" section below.

> NOTE: The facilitator must ensure that the document is accessible to every voting member and *no one else*. In particular, if an existing Council member is among the candidates, the hackmd cannot created under the Leadership Council hackmd organisation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The facilitator must ensure that the document is accessible to every voting member and *no one else*. In particular, if an existing Council member is among the candidates, the document cannot be created under the Leadership Council HackMD organisation.
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

In 2025, the facilitator created a document in their personal account, set the "Read" and "Write" Note permissions to "Signed-in users" and took care to only share the link with the voting members.

> After the meeting, they set the permission to "Only me".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in 2025, the facilitator created a document in their personal account, set the "Read" and "Write" Note permissions to "Signed-in users" and took care to only share the link with the voting members. After the meeting, they set the permission to "Only me".
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

This is to work around the fact that our free HackMD accounts don't allow sharing a private note with more than three other people. The facilitator should investigate other solutions ahead-of-time.

### Election Meeting

* Share nominations
    * Write down nominations first[^1].
    * Use a round format[^2] (e.g. [round format](https://www.sociocracyforall.org/on-rounds/))
    * Nominations must include supporting reasoning 
* Change Round
    * During the change round, every team member will share their current preferred nominees and the reasons for changes from the previous preferred nominees if that applies.
    * Note that the change round is driving around discussing and trying to select the best possible nominee(s) rather than discussing the full set of nominees. De-selecting a nominee from consideration in a given change round does not disqualify the nominee from being selected in future change rounds.
* Facilitator proposes a candidate selection:
    * Based on gathered data, the facilitator suggests a set of candidates they believe will receive the group's consent.
    * The proposal should contain the full set of proposed PDs rather than selecting them one by one

>       * That way, the Council can consider any potential conflicts etc. in that group as a whole

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * That way, the Council can consider any potential conflicts and related concerns within the group as a whole
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

candidates), the Council will postpone the election process to give a chance to
troubleshoot and find an approach that is more likely to be successful. We do
not specify how this will happen, but the council would likely convene a
subcommittee to work on the issue and report back to the Council.

### Affiliation Limits

There can be **at most one** Project Director employed by a company that's a [*corporate member* of the Foundation](https://rustfoundation.org/members/)[^3][^4].

> Affiliation limits only apply to companies that are corporate (Platinum, Gold, or Silver) members.

Reviewer 3: Let's please cite the [bylaws](https://rustfoundation.org/policy/bylaws/) for this rule and make it clear that this document is just reiterating the rule, not establishing it.

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..ed5982b3d6d32c0afdd656636db386deb48e0b43)*

> Affiliation limits only apply to companies that are corporate (Platinum, Gold, or Silver) members.

Author: ```suggestion
Affiliation limits only apply to companies that are corporate (Platinum, Gold, or Silver) members ([Section 4.3(g) of the bylaws](https://rustfoundation.org/policy/bylaws/#section-4.3-nomination%2C-election-and-term-of-office-of-directors)).
```

not specify how this will happen, but the council would likely convene a

> subcommittee to work on the issue and report back to the council.

Reviewer 5: Optional Nitpick: a small number of "Council" instances aren't capitalised
```suggestion
subcommittee to work on the issue and report back to the Council.
```

### Affiliation Limits

> There can be **at most 1** Project Director employed by a company that's a [*corporate member* of the Foundation](https://rustfoundation.org/members/)[^3][^4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There can be **at most one** Project Director employed by a company that's a [*corporate member* of the Foundation](https://rustfoundation.org/members/)[^3][^4].
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/leadership-council/286/d46426ff776bd841b3c84feb3500c7cc1c52d16d..7a09ff9f241349c41f83c366ceaf03e9b1821728)*

Reviewer 5: "a company" could be read as "for any company" or "across all companies". The formal rule is "at most one for each company".

See paragraph 4.3 (g) in https://rustfoundation.org/policy/bylaws/#section-4.3-nomination%2C-election-and-term-of-office-of-directors

```suggestion
There can be **at most one** Project Director employed by each company that's a [*corporate member* of the Foundation](https://rustfoundation.org/members/)[^3][^4].
```

> There are no affiliation limits for companies that aren't corporate members.

Reviewer 5: This might be clearer without the double negative, and with a list of specific corporate membership types. (The link above includes Associate members, but they aren't corporate members in the by-laws.) 

```suggestion
Affiliation limits only apply to companies that are corporate (Platinum, Gold, or Silver) members.
```
